xvi lwuuouucutow:

youth was eager to grusp every opportunity for the best
training, diri not visit Greeee at all until after hc ituri
entered on the practice of his profession: Cicero's sou, 33133
tuas just oi Horace's age, was now at Atheus studying
rhetoric und philosophy. 'l'here, too, Horace found a nrun-
ber of other young meu 31 distinguished families, among

· theru Valerius Messala, wlm traeed his descent fronr the

Valerius Poplicola 33133 held with Brutus the first consulship
ef the Republie. On what terms Horace stood with these
idion-students tue are left to conjecture; but bis· genial
nature und conversatioual gifts, combined with tact und

, good sense, must heve drawn many to him. His friendship

with Messala and many closer intimaeies, to which his poenus
bear witness, date uo doubt from this period. 'l'here was
nothing out 31 3133 tuuy in this association of the freedman's
son with the young nobles in common studies and literary
interests. Aristoerecy of birth hus never aspired to rnouopo
lize the hrain-work of the world, arrd youth anri good fellon-
ship 333 333 strennuus about social distinctions. ln the
next stage of Horace's career 133 found his position very

different.

Iu 3333 Annw or Bauius.

, 33. In September, 44 333, six rnonths after the ‚assassi-
nation of Julius Caesar, Marcus lhutns carne to Atheus, anrl
for sonte months, while waiting for the turn of political
events, devoted himself to 3133 33133313 31 philosophy. llis
appearance created no little sensation. ‘l'he Atheniens, who
lived largcly in the traditious of their past, weleorued ‘the
liberator’ with enthusiasm, arrd voted to set up his statue
beside those 'of 'their own tyrannicides, Harmodius aud
Aristogeiton. The young Roruuus were ssattered by the
accession Ι31 so illustriousafellone-student, whose real interest
in philosophy was well known ς und before the winter 3333

 

